README.md, before:

# Algorithm Practice

## Goals

- Practice at least 1 algorithm per day for 100 (business) days
- Share insights around logic and across languages

## Resources

- [Udemy course: 100 Algorithm Challenge](https://www.udemy.com/course/100-algorithms-challenge/learn/lecture/10510502?start=0#overview)
- [whiteboarding-meetup repo](https://git.generalassemb.ly/eloisebarrow/whiteboarding-meetup/blob/master/algorithms.md)
- [javascript-algorithms repo](https://github.com/trekhleb/javascript-algorithms#data-structures)
- [codewars.com](https://www.codewars.com/)
- [hackerrank.com](https://www.hackerrank.com/)

### Problem 1

```
Given a two-digit integer, return the sum of its digits.

Input: 29
Output: 11

Input: 30
Output: 3
```

### Problem 2

```
Write a function called oddsEvens that given a string, prints its even-indexed and odd-indexed characters as space-separated strings on a single line.

Input: Hacker
Output: Hce akr

```

### Problem 3

```
Write a function called isAnagram that, given 2 strings, returns true if the strings are anagrams
isAnagram("cinema", "iceman") == True
isAnagram("randum" "werdz") == False
```

### Problem 4

```
Given an array of strings, return another array containing all of its longest strings.

Input: ["aba", "aa", "ad", "vcd", "aba"]
Output: ["aba", "vcd", "aba"]
```

### Problem 5

```
Write a function called largestNumber that will return the largest value from an array.

Input: [1,2,5,10]
Output: 10
```

### Problem 6

```
Write a function called printArr that will print the items of an array.

Input: ['sally','monique','caleb']
Output: 

sally
monique
caleb

```

### Problem 7

```
Write a function called isPalindrome that, given a string, returns true
if the string is a palindrome, and false if not

Input: isPalindrome("tacocat")
Output: True

Input: isPalindrome("nottacocat")
Output: False

Additional levels of difficulty:
Input: isPalindrome("Race car")
Output: True

Input: isPalindrome("a man, a plan, a canal - panama")
Output: True
```

### Problem 8

```
Write a function called likes which takes in an array, containing the names of people who like an item. It must return the display text as shown in the examples and is dependent on the number of elements in the array.

Input: likes([])
Output: "no one likes this"

Input: likes(["Peter"])
Output: "Peter likes this"

Input: likes(["Jacob", "Alex"])
Output: "Jacob and Alex like this"

Input: likes(["Max", "John", "Mark"])
Output: "Max, John and Mark like this"

Input: likes(["Alex", "Jacob", "Mark", "Max"])
Output: "Alex, Jacob and 2 others like this"
```

### Problem 9

```
Create a function called findMissingNums that takes in two arrays. Iterate over the first array and the number you are iteratring over is NOT present in the second array, push the number into it. Once the loop is complete return the second array.

Input: [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9], [2,3,7,9]
Output: [ 2, 3, 7, 9, 0, 1, 4, 5, 6, 8 ]
```

### Problem 10

```
Write a function called phoneBook that given two parameters, the first being an array of hashes containing n number of names and phone numbers and the second being an array of friends names will then will assemble a phone book that maps the 'friends' array of names to their respective phone numbers if they are found in the first array. Each found entry will print the associated entry from your phone book on a new line in the form name=phoneNumber; if an entry is not found, print Not found instead.

Input 1: [{sam:99912222},{tom:11122222},{harry:12299933}]
Input 2: ['sam','ed','harry']

Output:
sam=99912222
NOT FOUND
harry:12299933
```

### Problem 11

```
Write a function called twoSum that given an array of integers and a target number, returns two array integers that add up to the target.

Input: [3, 2, 5, 7, 11, 15], 9
Output: Return [2, 7]
```

### Problem 12

```
Write a function called hasVowels that takes in an array of words and returns a new array of only those words that contain one or more vowels.

Input: hasVowels(['jon', 'ada', 'ppzpp', 'brgggg', 'eric'])
Output: ['jon', 'ada', 'eric']
```

### Problem 13

```
Write a function called isPrime, that takes in a positive integer and returns
True if number is Prime, otherwise false

Input: isPrime(10)
Output: False

Input: isPrime(13)
Output: True
```


### Problem 14

```
Write a function called uniqueVals that will return an array of unique values, no duplicates allowed. It will accept 2 arguments, the first will be the desired length of the returned array and the second will the be the max value in the random set.

Input: uniqueVals(5,10)
Possible Output: [1,7,3,9,2]
```

### Problem 15

```
Write a function called greatestCommomFactor that, given two distinct positive integers,
returns the greatest common factorof those two values

Input: greatestCommonFactor(9,12)
Output: 3

Input: greatestCommonFactor(6,18)
Output: 6

Input: greatestCommonFactor(7,11)
Output: 1
```

### Problem 16

```
Write a function called stringCompress that, given a string of only letters, returns a
string that represents a numerically compressed format of the string.

Input: stringCompress("abbcccddddec")
Output: "a2b3c4dec"

Input: stringCompress("abcd")
Output: "abcd"
```

### Problem 17

```
Given a list (or array) of integers, return a new list such that each element at index i of the new list 
is the product of all the numbers in the original list except the one at i.

Input: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
Output: [120, 60, 40, 30, 24]

Input: [3, 2, 1]
Output: [2, 3, 6]

Added difficulty:
Answer cannot include division.
```

### Problem 18

```
Given a list of integers, write a function that returns the largest sum of 
non-adjacent numbers. Numbers can be 0 or negative.

Input: [2, 4, 6, 2, 5] 
Output: 13

Input: [5, 1, 1, 5] 
Output: 10

Follow-up: Can you do this in O(N) time and constant space?
```

### Problem 19

```
Given a list of integers, return a list of even integers, squared. 

Input: [8,1,9,10]
Output: [64,100]
```

### Problem 20

```
Given a mapping of digits to letters (as in a phone number), 
and a digit string, return all possible letters the number 
could represent. You can assume each valid number in the mapping is a single digit.


For example if: 
{2: [“a”, “b”, “c”], 3: [“d”, “e”, “f”], 4: ["g", "h", "i"], 
5: ["j", "k", "l"], 6: ["m", "n", "o"]} 
then “23” should return 
[“ad”, “ae”, “af”, “bd”, “be”, “bf”, “cd”, “ce”, “cf"].
```

Commit message:

add usejournal.com resource, problem 21

README.md, after:

# Algorithm Practice

## Goals

- Practice at least 1 algorithm per day for 100 (business) days
- Share insights around logic and across languages

## Resources

- [Udemy course: 100 Algorithm Challenge](https://www.udemy.com/course/100-algorithms-challenge/learn/lecture/10510502?start=0#overview)
- [whiteboarding-meetup repo](https://git.generalassemb.ly/eloisebarrow/whiteboarding-meetup/blob/master/algorithms.md)
- [javascript-algorithms repo](https://github.com/trekhleb/javascript-algorithms#data-structures)
- [codewars.com](https://www.codewars.com/)
- [hackerrank.com](https://www.hackerrank.com/)
- [UseJournal.com - Coding Freak: 500 data structures and algorithms](https://blog.usejournal.com/500-data-structures-and-algorithms-practice-problems-35afe8a1e222)

### Problem 1

```
Given a two-digit integer, return the sum of its digits.

Input: 29
Output: 11

Input: 30
Output: 3
```

### Problem 2

```
Write a function called oddsEvens that given a string, prints its even-indexed and odd-indexed characters as space-separated strings on a single line.

Input: Hacker
Output: Hce akr

```

### Problem 3

```
Write a function called isAnagram that, given 2 strings, returns true if the strings are anagrams
isAnagram("cinema", "iceman") == True
isAnagram("randum" "werdz") == False
```

### Problem 4

```
Given an array of strings, return another array containing all of its longest strings.

Input: ["aba", "aa", "ad", "vcd", "aba"]
Output: ["aba", "vcd", "aba"]
```

### Problem 5

```
Write a function called largestNumber that will return the largest value from an array.

Input: [1,2,5,10]
Output: 10
```

### Problem 6

```
Write a function called printArr that will print the items of an array.

Input: ['sally','monique','caleb']
Output: 

sally
monique
caleb

```

### Problem 7

```
Write a function called isPalindrome that, given a string, returns true
if the string is a palindrome, and false if not

Input: isPalindrome("tacocat")
Output: True

Input: isPalindrome("nottacocat")
Output: False

Additional levels of difficulty:
Input: isPalindrome("Race car")
Output: True

Input: isPalindrome("a man, a plan, a canal - panama")
Output: True
```

### Problem 8

```
Write a function called likes which takes in an array, containing the names of people who like an item. It must return the display text as shown in the examples and is dependent on the number of elements in the array.

Input: likes([])
Output: "no one likes this"

Input: likes(["Peter"])
Output: "Peter likes this"

Input: likes(["Jacob", "Alex"])
Output: "Jacob and Alex like this"

Input: likes(["Max", "John", "Mark"])
Output: "Max, John and Mark like this"

Input: likes(["Alex", "Jacob", "Mark", "Max"])
Output: "Alex, Jacob and 2 others like this"
```

### Problem 9

```
Create a function called findMissingNums that takes in two arrays. Iterate over the first array and the number you are iteratring over is NOT present in the second array, push the number into it. Once the loop is complete return the second array.

Input: [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9], [2,3,7,9]
Output: [ 2, 3, 7, 9, 0, 1, 4, 5, 6, 8 ]
```

### Problem 10

```
Write a function called phoneBook that given two parameters, the first being an array of hashes containing n number of names and phone numbers and the second being an array of friends names will then will assemble a phone book that maps the 'friends' array of names to their respective phone numbers if they are found in the first array. Each found entry will print the associated entry from your phone book on a new line in the form name=phoneNumber; if an entry is not found, print Not found instead.

Input 1: [{sam:99912222},{tom:11122222},{harry:12299933}]
Input 2: ['sam','ed','harry']

Output:
sam=99912222
NOT FOUND
harry:12299933
```

### Problem 11

```
Write a function called twoSum that given an array of integers and a target number, returns two array integers that add up to the target.

Input: [3, 2, 5, 7, 11, 15], 9
Output: Return [2, 7]
```

### Problem 12

```
Write a function called hasVowels that takes in an array of words and returns a new array of only those words that contain one or more vowels.

Input: hasVowels(['jon', 'ada', 'ppzpp', 'brgggg', 'eric'])
Output: ['jon', 'ada', 'eric']
```

### Problem 13

```
Write a function called isPrime, that takes in a positive integer and returns
True if number is Prime, otherwise false

Input: isPrime(10)
Output: False

Input: isPrime(13)
Output: True
```


### Problem 14

```
Write a function called uniqueVals that will return an array of unique values, no duplicates allowed. It will accept 2 arguments, the first will be the desired length of the returned array and the second will the be the max value in the random set.

Input: uniqueVals(5,10)
Possible Output: [1,7,3,9,2]
```

### Problem 15

```
Write a function called greatestCommomFactor that, given two distinct positive integers,
returns the greatest common factor of those two values

Input: greatestCommonFactor(9,12)
Output: 3

Input: greatestCommonFactor(6,18)
Output: 6

Input: greatestCommonFactor(7,11)
Output: 1
```

### Problem 16

```
Write a function called stringCompress that, given a string of only letters, returns a
string that represents a numerically compressed format of the string.

Input: stringCompress("abbcccddddec")
Output: "a2b3c4dec"

Input: stringCompress("abcd")
Output: "abcd"
```

### Problem 17

```
Given a list (or array) of integers, return a new list such that each element at index i of the new list 
is the product of all the numbers in the original list except the one at i.

Input: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
Output: [120, 60, 40, 30, 24]

Input: [3, 2, 1]
Output: [2, 3, 6]

Added difficulty:
Answer cannot include division.
```

### Problem 18

```
Given a list of integers, write a function that returns the largest sum of 
non-adjacent numbers. Numbers can be 0 or negative.

Input: [2, 4, 6, 2, 5] 
Output: 13

Input: [5, 1, 1, 5] 
Output: 10

Follow-up: Can you do this in O(N) time and constant space?
```

### Problem 19

```
Given a list of integers, return a list of even integers, squared. 

Input: [8,1,9,10]
Output: [64,100]
```

### Problem 20

```
Given a mapping of digits to letters (as in a phone number), 
and a digit string, return all possible letters the number 
could represent. You can assume each valid number in the mapping is a single digit.


For example if: 
{2: [“a”, “b”, “c”], 3: [“d”, “e”, “f”], 4: ["g", "h", "i"], 
5: ["j", "k", "l"], 6: ["m", "n", "o"]} 
then “23” should return 
[“ad”, “ae”, “af”, “bd”, “be”, “bf”, “cd”, “ce”, “cf"].
```

### Problem 21 (Arrays)
```
Find pair with given sum in the array:

Given an unsorted integer array, find a pair with a given sum in it.

Input:
 
arr = [8, 7, 2, 5, 3, 1]
sum = 10
 
Output:
 
Pair found at index 0 and 2 (8 + 2)
 
or
 
Pair found at index 1 and 4 (7 + 3)
```
